Dear all,

Lattice-based approaches are emerging as a common theme in modern
cryptography and coding theory. In communications, they are an
indispensable mathematical tool to construct powerful error-correction
codes achieving the capacity of wireless channels. In cryptography, they
are used to build lattice-based schemes with provable security, better
asymptotic efficiency, resilience against quantum attacks and new
functionalities such as fully homomorphic encryption.

We are setting up meetings on lattices in cryptography and coding in the
London area.[^1] These meetings are inspired by similar meetings held in
Lyon[^2] and are aimed at connecting the two communities in the UK with
a common interest in lattices, with a long-term goal of building a
synergy of the two fields.

The meetings will consist of several talks on related topics, with a
format that will hopefully encourage interaction (e.g. longer than usual
time slots).

# Tentative program #

More details here as the become available:

  http://malb.io/discrete-subgroup/2016/05/04/

## Cong Ling: Achieving Channel Capacity with Lattice Codes ##

11:00 – 12:30

Abstract: Lattice coding is a new paradigm of modern coding theory,
giving rise to coding schemes achieving the Shannon capacity of
Gaussian-noise channels. In wireless communications, lattices have
become an indispensable tool to construct powerful error-correction
codes over mobile fading channels, thanks to the connection to algebraic
number theory. This talk presents an overview of the constructions of
lattice codes for Gaussian, fading and MIMO (multi-input multi-output)
channels, and introduces a novel framework to achieve the capacity of
fading/MIMO channels with ideal lattices.

## Nigel Smart: Post-Quantum Cryptography ##

13:30 – 15:00

## Alister Burr: Lattice Coding with Applications to Compute-and-Forward ##

15:00 – 16:30

## Martin Albrecht: A Subfield Lattice Attack on Overstretched NTRU Assumptions ##

16:30 - 18:00

Abstract: We present work which exploits the presence of a subfield to
solve the NTRU problem for large moduli $q$: norming-down the public key
$h$ to a subfield may lead to an easier lattice problem, and any
sufficiently good solution may be lifted to a short vector in the full
NTRU-lattice.

We restrict ourselves to choices of dimensions $n(λ)$ and modulus $q(λ)$
that were previously thought to offer resistance against attacks in time
exponential in the security parameter $λ$. For any super-polynomial
$q(λ)$, the subfield attack can be made sub-exponential in $λ$, or even
polynomial as $q(λ)$ gets larger.

The subfield lattice attack directly affects the asymptotic security of
the bootstrappable homomorphic encryption schemes LTV and YASHE. It also
makes GGH-like Multilinear Maps vulnerable to principal ideals attacks —
therefore leading to a quantum break — and almost vulnerable to a
statistical attack a-la Gentry-Szydlo. No *encodings of zero* nor
*zero-testing parameter* are required.

# Venue #

Room 611 (Dennis Gabor Seminar Room)
Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Imperial College London
South Kensington 
London SW7 2AZ

## Directions ##

http://www.imperial.ac.uk/visit/campuses/south-kensington/

# Registration #

Everyone is welcome. Two caveats:

1. speakers are told the audience is somewhat familiar with lattices

2. please send us an email at <c.ling@imperial.ac.uk>, so that the size
   of the room fits with the number of participants.

Best,
Cong Ling and Martin Albrecht

[^1]: Our definition of London includes Egham, where Royal Holloway’s
    main campus is located.

[^2]: http://perso.ens-lyon.fr/damien.stehle/LATTICE_MEETINGS.html
